I want to sanction
you off the books.
I'll supply you
with whatever
resources you need.
Did joe try to contact
anyone while he was here?
All I know is she was
a friend in the fbi.
You made me give up
the fbi.
Please, jana.
Carroll, voice-over:
Tell me about korban.
Korban? Well,
it's still there
As far as I know.
I know out in the world
you're a big deal
With a killer cult
and a bunch
of followers,
But in here,
you're the follower.
I need your help.
I want
to kill people.
You're the reporter
that's writing the book.
Carrie cooke.
I think there's
a bigger story here,
And it's all mine.
With or without you,
I'm gonna find lily gray.
You tell me.
What are you gonna do
when you find joe?
Revenge doesn't
fix anything. I know.
But you're
here anyway.
Aagh!
You're ok. Hang on.
[wheezing]
Thank you.
This is god's will.
You abused your power,
micah.
You killed
your own people!
Why didn't you tell me
that you were doing this?
I love you
too much, julia.
I don't want to
lose you.
Take her away,
take her away.
Micah, no, no, no.
It's time we tell
the whole world
That joe carroll
is alive.
Anyone looking
for an update
On the murderous rampage
of lily gray
Need to look no further
than our very own reporter
And best-selling author
of "the havenport tragedy"
Carrie cooke.
Carrie: Good morning,
everyone.
Ah. Good morning,
miss cooke.
This carrie cooke
is all over the news.
She's making a lot
of money off you.
Well, I suppose
someone should.
...And her family
of psychopaths?
Lily gray suffers
from a loss of identity.
She was an abused orphan
Adopted
by a wealthy man,
Raised in a privileged
world she could
never belong to,
So she created
her own family.
Hmm. And how does
joe carroll fit
into this?
Their murder spree
has been a tribute
to carroll's legacy,
But lily gray
is creating
her own legacy.
Her psychopathy is
much more complicated
Than carroll's ever was.
Micah: Yes! Her!
Lily gray!
She's the perfect example.
She's huge.
I want to make a splash
like she has.
I made a splash,
micah.
Yes, of course you did
back then,
But she's
in the news now.
You're dead, remember?
Heh.
You got a phone
I could use?
Yes. Who you gonna call?
Well, if you want
to make a splash,
You're gonna need
help in that,
And I have this
contact who has
Proven most
resourceful
With occasions
such as these.
[cell phone ringing]
Andrea: Mom, your phone!
[ring]
Hello?
Jana.
Joe, are you ok?
Yes, yes. Fine.
Jana, it appears
that I might be
Needing your help
again.
Carrie: I didn't mention
anything about strauss
or joe carroll.
I talked mainly
about lily gray.
So what do you
have for me?
Strauss is being held
At an nsa terrorist
unit downtown.
They've sent specialists
from d.C.
In the process
of interrogating
him right now.
That's all I know.
And what about
joe carroll?
I haven't found
him yet.
But you'll notify me
the second you
know something.
Or the second after.
That's the way
this works, ryan.
I keep my mouth shut,
But you feed me
the bigger story.
Understood.
Let's have dinner
tonight.
I can't.
You can't,
or you won't?
It's just dinner.
I doubt dinner is
ever just dinner
with you.
Now you're paranoid.
You saved my life.
Can't I buy you
dinner?
Does it sound
that crazy?
Uh, yeah, it does.
I'll call you if
I got anything.
[water running]
[cell phone ringing]
[water stops]
[ring]
Hey, mom.
How you doing?
Yeah, I'm good.
Yeah, I'm ok.
Uh, listen.
Can I call you back?
Yeah. I love you, too.
Bye.
Stop!
Uh, what are
you doing here?
Ok. Well, uh, you
should have said
something.
Yeah. I was going to,
and then your phone rang,
And you answered it,
and it was your mother,
So I--I waited,
But then you dropped
your towel,
And things got creepy.
Creepy?
Yeah, creepy because
You're on the phone
with your mother,
And it's--you're naked.
It's weird.
Where's ryan?
He went to go meet
carrie cooke,
And you're the only
one here acting weird.
Ok. Sorry.
Uh...Ahem.
Let's start over.
I brought coffee.
How are you?
I don't know.
I'm ok, I guess.
Thank you for asking.
I may have something
on the fbi leak.
Ryan forwarded me
a report from franklin
With info on all
female agents
With possible access.
How extensive is
the list?
2,663 names,
but we can eliminate
90% simply by
access and intel.
Ok. What if you
cross referenced
The agents' caseloads
and locals
With carroll-related
incidents in the past year
When the security
breach happened?
Way ahead of you.
Narrowed it
to 6 women.
-6?
-Yeah.
Keep in mind this
is a rush job,
It's inaccurate,
unfounded, and...
There's a lot
of room for error.
It is time for the world
to realize
That the beginning is near,
Um, the beginning
of the end,
For the alpha and omega
are upon us.
Cut. That's not right.
I messed up again, joe.
Yeah. It's, uh, it's
"the end is near,"
Not--not
"the beginning,"
And alpha and omega
is the beginning
And the end,
not the beginning
Of the end.
Do you want to take
another look
Over the lines,
or...
I'm better
when I just feel it.
Yeah. Right. I'm--
I'm sure you are.
[knock on door]
Robert, emma!
Please come in!
Hello, micah.
I'm so pleased
that you two
Are gonna be
my first messengers.
You know what it is
you're supposed to do.
Yes. Joe has explained
everything in detail.
Any questions?
We've gone over it
again and again.
Oh, one last thing.
I've decided
to add lance.
He'll be very
helpful.
Yeah. I-I-I'm sorry.
Lance? Who's lance?
I told you you're
not the first killer
To seek
shelter here.
You're gonna love
lance,
And he's
superexcited to get
Out of the hole.
Why's he still
down the hole?
He was serving
penance ever since
He sliced
a girl's ear off
6 months ago.
A girl here?
What did she do?
He didn't like
the way she looked.
He was making
a point.
Trust me. Lance is
perfect to accompany
You two to new york,
And he's very
devoted to me.
Oh! The weapons!
Can't forget those.
Come on, robert.
Come on.
Come with me.
I--I think I've
just about had
My fill of micah.
Uh--lance?
I do not like
surprises.
How crazy is he?
Oh. Bipolar, delusional.
I'm seeing strong signs
of disassociative
identity disorder,
But then what do I know?
I'm not a doctor.
Do you really want
to do this?
There's no one else
to do it.
Don't worry.
I'm not the same
little girl
You remember
from a year ago.
It'll be dangerous.
So am I.
Yes, you are.
Ryan: I don't
believe it.
My gut tells me
she's innocent.
Her security codes
were used 6 times last year
To access
debra parker's e-mail.
Are we absolutely
certain about this?
Nothing is certain here.
I'm a little limited,
But maybe 80% sure.
Mike: She did
her dissertation
on carroll
At the academy.
So did you.
What do we know
about her personal life?
She's been separated
just over a year
From jana murphy,
a retired fbi analyst.
-A woman.
-Yeah.
I didn't know.
Max: They have
two kids together.
Where is she?
Stay-at-home mom
in the suburbs.
She's been inactive
since the first kid.
But truth is,
we don't know anything
About mendez
beyond the file.
If she's innocent,
let's prove it.
I'm 10 minutes away.
Had to run home
and shower.
All right.
I'll be right there.
Oh!
Sorry.
Oh. Just--
you know what?
Let me call you back.
Hi, gina.
Hey, ryan.
What are you
doing here?
I was hoping
we could talk.
Well, franklin said
that you were out,
So what's this
about?
Is it mike?
Is he ok?
I pulled your
security clearance.
Why do you have
personal firewalls
On your passcodes?
For protection.
Tread lightly, ryan.
Why did you access
debra parker's e-mail account
6 times last year?
I did no such thing.
Look. You're on
a fishing expedition,
And it's not gonna work
Because I'm
not the leak.
How dare you question
my loyalty.
Go to hell.
What's she doing?
She's at her car,
And she's mad.
What'd you say
to her?
I went for it.
I accused her.
Mike: She just ditched
her cell.
Max: She's still
wearing my trace.
I got it.
Nicely done.
Thank you.
She's ditching
her car.
She's paranoid,
and she's heading
towards you.
Guess I was wrong.
That's too bad.
Robert, I want
you to take care
of emma for me.
Don't you think it's
the other way around?
Heh heh.
So what did you
tell mandy?
I'm keeping her
in the dark for now.
She's prone to worry.
You ready for this?
Go big or go home.
Something wrong?
No. It's just your...
Timing.
Lance, meet everyone.
This is joe,
robert, emma.
Hi. Can I have
the backseat?
Sure.
Oh, uh, don't forget
micah's message.
He, uh, he finished it.
Well, you kids
have fun!
So lance is a freak.
I agree.
So, uh...
You and joe
are a thing?
It's complicated.
Don't look disappointed.
No. I...
If it's any consolation,
I don't believe
in relationships.
Someone always
ends up dead.
Hi, mom!
Hey, sweetie.
Mmm.
Where's your mom?
In there!
Bye, mom!
Gina, hey.
Hey, lisa.
This is
a nice surprise.
Hey, sweetie.
Do you know carol?
No, I don't.
It's nice to meet you.
Where's jana?
Oh. The new blond
in the house.
Ahh. Oh!
Do we have something
scheduled that I forgot?
No. I just needed
to talk to you.
There's a little thing
called a telephone.
It'll only take
a minute.
Lisa: Should we go?
Of course not.
Who needs more wine?
Here you guys go.
Kids! Pizza!
I really need
to talk to you.
What is it?
Pizza! Come and get it!
Spit it out.
I have company.
Alone.
[sighs]
Oh.
I've been praying
About julia.
Oh. I see.
I was seeking
guidance.
Did you get any?
I love her, joe.
What do I do?
I killed my wife,
So probably not
the best person to ask.
Not with my own hands,
mind you,
But indirectly, hmm.
Did you love her?
Heart and soul.
Claire is my--
She's my one
true regret.
I could never harm julia.
No, no.
Of course not.
I understand.
Here's your pizza.
Are you done
dodging me?
I have company,
people I care about.
Might not be your
fancy fbi world,
But it matters to me.
Ok. Listen, jana.
We need to have
A real conversation
right now.
Did you even notice
I colored my hair?
Jana, please.
[sighs]
Fine. What?
After andrea
was born
And you had
your episode--
Why are you
bringing that up?
It was
postpartum depression.
Women who give up
their careers
To have children
sometimes experience that.
We called it that
because of work.
You had a psychotic
break, jana.
You were
hospitalized.
I had an emotional reaction
to childbirth.
You killed
the neighbor's dog.
It was a vicious,
unstable dog!
It was attacking everyone
in the neighborhood!
Oh, god.
Oh, jana.
You're not ok.
I am ok.
Joe carroll?
I know.
You were obsessed
with him.
with carroll.
With--with the case.
Everyone was back then.
Why are you bringing
this up?
You have been using
my security clearance!
Ok. You know what?
I'm not doing this.
We're done.
You're done?
Yes!
Oh, god!
You know what?
You ruined my life once,
But you're not gonna
do it again.
Unh!
[spits]
Ok. Who needs more pizza?
-Hey.
-Yeah!
Are you ok?
Where's gina?
Oh. She is
in the garage
cooling off.
I had no idea
she was showing
up today.
I'm so sorry,
you guys.
What's going on?
Um, I have to
run upstairs
for a minute.
Can you just watch
billy for me?
Great.
Don't stop drinking.
[doorbell rings]
Got it!
Hi. We're looking
for gina mendez.
She's in the garage.
Wait. Who are you?
We're friends
of gina's.
Hey, jana. Some guys
are here for gina.
Um, be right there!
Come on in.
Thanks.
So do you have
a name?
I'm ryan.
Hmm. And I'm married
sadly.
Sorry. Day drinking.
You said she was
in the garage?
Which way is that?
Yeah. This way.
Wait here.
Hi. Smells good.
[lisa gasps]
Call an ambulance!
Gina. Gina.
We have an emergency
at 28...
Ryan?
Hang on. Ok.
Just--
Jana.
Hang on, gina.
Stay with her.
Oh, gina, gina.
Get the kids
out of here.
Oh, my god.
Take them
through the back now.
Now!
[crying]
Who are you?
Mike: Jana, I need you
to stay where you are.
No, no, no.
This is my house.
Put the gun down.
Hey!
You cannot be
in my house!
Mike: Drop the gun.
It's over!
Oh, I don't
think so.
Where is
joe carroll?
Do you know
where he is?
Yes, ryan, I know.
Tell me.
Where's joe?
Is that all you
care about--
Joe carroll?
Is it?
Just look around you!
The world is
falling apart,
And all you can say
is, "where's joe?"
It doesn't matter...
Anymore.
It doesn't matter.
Nothing matters.
[gunshot]
No, no!
[indistinct chatter]
How are you, julia?
How do you think?
I've been locked in
a cabin by my husband.
The world that I spent
my life creating
Has shunned me.
What the hell did you
tell everyone?
The truth,
that you defied me
and our beliefs.
You defied our beliefs,
Everything that
we stand for.
You have gone way
beyond the realm
Ok. So I was hoping to have
a rational conversation,
But if you're just
gonna call me crazy again--
Joe carroll is
manipulating you.
How do you not see that?
He's helping me.
To find my true self.
How do you know he's not
a prophet that's been sent
Here to guide us?
We're not killers.
You're not a killer.
I have killed.
Have I not hurt people
in the name of korban?
But you channeled
the spirit.
That's completely
different.
We're not monsters.
You and I,
we have faith.
My faith has evolved.
I am evolving.
So should you.
Ok, micah.
I will.
I'm your wife,
And it's my duty to
love and support you
No matter what.
I want you
to believe in me.
I do.
I do believe in you.
[click]
You used to
believe in me.
What happened
to us, julia?
Why did you do this?
Because I had to
Test your faith.
You did this.
You set me up!
Micah...Listen to me.
Unh!
Micah...
[whispering]
how's this
for control?
Thank you.
Mendez: My kids.
Where are my kids?
They're with
a neighbor--lisa.
They're gonna take
you to the hospital.
Director franklin is
gonna send men
From d.C. To be
with you.
You don't answer
any questions
Until they arrive,
do you understand?
I'm really sorry.
I thought she was ok.
I took everything
off of her computer.
It needs to be decoded,
but I already sent
it to max,
And I got this.
Jana's cell phone.
[bells jingle]
Hi. I'm here
for the signing.
When does it start?
Not for a while yet.
You're early.
Thank you.
Jana was careful.
She used a blocker.
Phone has no cell history.
I can't ping a tower,
nothing.
There's no way to access
her phone log.
I got it.
I broke the encryption.
All right. Look up
her internet searches.
It's--it's flooded
with carrie cooke.
She's being targeted.
Hi.
Miss cooke, so excited
to have you here.
I'm sorry I'm late.
No, no. No worries.
Right this way.
We have it all
set up for you.
Thank you.
There's
a book signing today.
What time?
Now.
This is federal
agent mike weston.
I need the police
to 336 worth street,
The old towne
bookstore.
Come on, come on,
come on.
[cell phone vibrating]
Thank you so much.
I'm glad you
liked it.
Hello.
What's your name?
Harriett.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Hello.
Hi.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And your name?
It's for a friend.
Your friend's name?
Oh. Um...
Joe carroll.
You. Oh, my god.
Emma hill!
She--she's here!
[people screaming]
Aah!
Unh!
Unh! Aah!
Aah!
Man: Hurry! Come on!
Woman:
Help! Please help!
This way, this way!
You've been chosen,
carrie.
You're going to
help us!
Get off me!
Share this
with the world,
And if you don't,
we will come for you
And everyone
you care about.
[sirens]
The cops are here.
Come on. Let's go.
Where's lance?
Just go! Go!
We don't have time!
[sirens]
Police!
Don't move!
Everyone on the ground!
That way!
Whoa, whoa.
Agent weston.
They're fine.
Excuse me.
You ok?
Yeah. I think so.
How many assailants?
Cctv shows 3.
Carrie: But I only saw two.
They were wearing masks.
A guy an emma hill.
She say anything
to you?
No.
Agent: Ma'am, we need
you to come with us.
Hey. You gonna
be all right?
I could stay
with you.
I'll be ok...
But can I call
you later?
Sure.
I really need
to leave.
I'm sorry, sir,
but it will be
Just a moment longer.
We appreciate
your patience.
Where's this guy
going?
Excuse me.
Can I help you?
Sir, you need
to come back
to the front.
I'm just looking
for a bathroom
Don't move!
Man: He's got
a knife!
Drop them.
I will kill her.
Do what he says.
Do not shoot him.
We need him alive.
Woman: Today in new york city
at the old towne bookstore,
A book signing
for author...
So you left
lance behind?
He never came out.
The police were there.
We had to run.
You did the right thing.
Ah, yes. That's--
that's too bad
about lance,
But you gave
carrie cooke
our message?
Emma: Yes.
This is
a monumental moment
I've got thank
you, joe.
You are
my guiding hand.
You are gonna make
history, micah.
Yes, I am.
A toast.
To immortality.
Immortality.
Emma and robert:
Woman: Let's turn to
"update america" for the latest.
Man on tv: Coming up next,
a live exclusive
From carrie cooke.
Micah: Here we go,
here we go!
Tonight, I bring
you an exclusive.
You have already heard
about the horrific murders
At a book signing
I was attending.
During the attack,
I was given the following video
And told to share it
with the world.
Yes!
Turn the tv on now.
Carrie: By broadcasting
this footage,
In no way do I
or this station
Condone today's events.
Carroll: Hello, world.
I hope I have
your attention now,
For today's massacre...
What the hell?
Was only the beginning.
That--that isn't--
[gagging]
Carroll on tv: I...
Am joe carroll,
And I am very much alive.
I have been reborn,
And like the last man
who was resurrected,
I come bringing salvation.
Throughout history,
sins have been redeemed
With the sacrifice of blood,
But today,
death is no longer revered.
Well, I have come
to restore that reverence.
In the coming days,
more blood will be spilled,
And nowhere
will be safe,
Not behind the locked doors
of your homes
Or in your streets,
Or--or even where you eat.
Shh, shh, shh.
You will never
feel safe again,
So prepare yourselves,
For this...
Is the age of joe carroll,
And my name
Will live forever.
Did carrie tell you
about this?
No.
[micah gagging]
It's time to
go home now.
They're all
waiting for you.
[cell phone ringing]
Hello?
Don't be so hard
on carrie.
You know joe
threatened her.
That's why she
lied to you.
You're defending her?
Her? No.
I'm just saying
She's been
through a lot.
We all have,
And one day, all of this
is gonna be over,
And you're gonna
have a life.
You think so?
Yeah. Yeah, I do.
Hey. I'll walk
you out.
Ryan: Where you going?
I just got
something to do.
I'll call you
tomorrow, ok?
Yeah.
Ready?
Micah has gone
home, robert.
Do you understand
what that means?
You know, today was
a tremendous success.
What you did
freed micah.
He has received
life's greatest reward.
I understand, joe.
Now you must
help me, robert.
Spread the word.
Let everyone hear
The glorious news.
I'll take care of it.
I know exactly
what to do.
Stay close to him.
See that he
doesn't waver.
And, emma...
This might just work.
Robert:
Micah and julia are home.
They've been called
before us to prepare the way.
They are truly blessed.
Praise micah!
Praise julia!
Fear not,
for we are not alone.
All hail
the prophet joe!
Hail the prophet joe!
He comes to lead us
down the path to salvation.
Praise joe!
[softly]
praise joe.
Praise joe!
[louder]
praise joe.
Praise joe!
[louder]
praise joe!
Praise joe!
[louder]
praise joe!
Praise joe!
[louder]
praise joe!
Praise joe!
[doorbell rings]
I got your message.
I'd have been
here sooner,
But I had a little
fbi detour.
You guys really know
how to ask the same question
Over and over again.
Come on in.
Uh, sorry, guys.
He means me.
I've seen this
face before.
You're mad at me.
I'm sorry I lied.
I'm not mad.
You were threatened.
Plus I know the last
few days have been
Tough on you.
I know.
What is this?
Thought we were
having dinner.
[the posies'
"coming right along" playing]
♪ freed the daytime
with indifference ♪
♪ watch the twilight
starve the sun ♪
♪ shuffle home
against the darkness ♪
How many guys they got
watching you?
Those two,
And the show's
hiring me
A security team
tomorrow.
Ooh! Fancy.
Well...Good night.
Thank you, ryan.
♪ but you're coming
right along ♪
♪ and please ♪
♪ please be strong ♪
Mike, good to see
you, man.
♪ but you're coming
right along ♪
♪ coming right along ♪
Hi, mike.